# MODEL1006230085: Iribe2006_CaMKIIkineticsModel

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230085.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230085.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Modulatory effect of calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) on sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ handling and interval-force relations: a modelling study.**   
Iribe G, Kohl P, Noble D. _Philos Transact A Math Phys Eng Sci_ 2006 May
15;364(1842):1107-33 [16608699](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16608699) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We hypothesize that slow inactivation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II
(CaMKII) and its modulatory effect on sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca2+
handling are important for various interval-force (I-F) relations, in
particular for the beat interval dependency in transient alternans during the
decay of post-extrasystolic potentiation. We have developed a mathematical
model of a single cardiomyocyte to integrate various I-F relations, including
alternans, by incorporating a conceptual CaMKII kinetics model into the SR
Ca2+ handling model. Our model integrates I-F relations, such as the beat
interval-dependent twitch force duration, restitution and potentiation,
positive staircase phenomenon and alternans. We found that CaMKII affects more
or less all I-F relations, and it is a key factor for integration of the
various I-F relations in our model. Alternans arises, in the model, out of a
steep relation between SR Ca2+ load and release, owing to SR load-dependent
changes in the releasability of Ca2+ via the ryanodine receptor. Beat
interval-dependent CaMKII activity, owing to its kinetic properties and
amplifying effect on SR Ca2+ load dependency of Ca2+ release, replicated the
beat interval dependency of alternans, as observed experimentally.
Additionally, our model enabled reproduction of the effects of various
interventions on alternans, such as the slowing or accelerating of Ca2+
release and/or uptake. We conclude that a slow time-dependent factor,
represented in the model by CaMKII, is important for the integration of I-F
relations, including alternans, and that our model offers a useful tool for
further analysis of the roles of integrative Ca2+ handling in myocardial I-F
relations.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Iribe G, Kohl P, Noble D. (2006) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/0d037175c4db141ecc4019ab15b812d8)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Penny Noble**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


